README.md, before:

# Simple POS

A modern, lightweight Point of Sale (POS) system built with **Tauri v2** and **Next.js 16**, designed for performance and simplicity.

## Features

- **Point of Sale Interface**: Fast and intuitive interface for processing sales.
- **Product Management**: Add, update, and remove products with details like price, category, and images.
- **Checkout Payment**: 
  - **Virtual Numpad**: Optimized touchscreen numeric keypad for quick cash entry.
  - **Smart Change Calculation**: Automated change display with validity checks.
  - **Responsive Layout**: Optimized for 1080x720 (3:2 Aspect Ratio) and scales up to 4K.
  - **Receipt Generation**: Backend integration for transaction recording.
- **Customizable UI**:
  - **Global Display Scaling**: Adjust the entire interface size from 50% to 200%.
  - **Granular Control**: Independently resize the Sidebar, Cart panel, and Product Grid density.
- **Order History**: 
  - View past transactions with date filtering.
  - Search receipts by unique ID.
  - Detailed receipt view with items and pricing.
- **Category Management**: Organize products into custom categories for easier navigation.
- **Settings**: Configure tax, currency, and display preferences.
- **Cross-Platform**: Runs natively on Linux, macOS, and Windows.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: [Next.js 16](https://nextjs.org/) (React 19), [Tailwind CSS 4](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Backend**: [Tauri v2](https://v2.tauri.app/) (Rust)
- **Database**: SQLite (via Diesel ORM in Rust)
  - **Automatic Path Resolution**: Uses `directories` crate to store data securely in the system's local data directory (e.g., `~/.local/share/simple-pos` on Linux).
- **State Management**: React Hooks & Context

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js** (v24 or newer recommended)
- **Rust & Cargo** (latest stable)
- **System Dependencies**:
  - **Linux**: Build essentials, webkit2gtk (see [Tauri Linux Setup](https://v2.tauri.app/start/prerequisites/#linux))
  - **macOS**: Build your own , i don't have mac.
  - **Windows**: Microsoft Visual Studio C++ Build Tools

## Setup & Development

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd simple-pos
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Run in Development Mode**
   This command starts both the Next.js frontend and the Tauri application window.
   ```bash
   npm run tauri dev
   ```
   > **Note for Linux Users**: The `tauri` script in `package.json` automatically sets `WEBKIT_DISABLE_DMABUF_RENDERER=1` to prevent rendering issues. Using `npm run tauri dev` ensures this is applied.

## Building for Production

To build a standalone executable for your operating system:

```bash
npm run tauri build
```

The output binary will be located in `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/`.

## Architecture

![Architecture Diagram](./mermaid-diagram-2026-02-11-181614.svg)

## Project Structure

- **`src/`**: Next.js frontend source code.
  - `app/`:
    - `components/`: Reusable React components (`payment`, `ui`, `design-mode`, `POSClient`, `Cart`).
    - `history/`: Order history page and related components.
    - `manage/`: Management interface for products and categories.
    - `setting/`: Settings page implementation.
    - `context/`: Global state management.
  - `hooks/`: Custom React hooks.
  - `lib/`: Utility functions and API wrappers (`api.ts`).
- **`src-tauri/`**: Rust backend source code.
  - `src/`: Core Rust source files (`main.rs`, `lib.rs`, `commands/`).
  - `database/`: Local crate for database interactions.
  - `export_lib/`: Local crate for handling exports.
  - `capabilities/`: Tauri permission capabilities.
  - `tauri.conf.json`: Tauri configuration file.

Commit message:

docs: Add troubleshooting section for NVIDIA GPUs on Linux and refine project structure details.

README.md, after:

# Simple POS

A modern, lightweight Point of Sale (POS) system built with **Tauri v2** and **Next.js 16**, designed for performance and simplicity.

## Features

- **Point of Sale Interface**: Fast and intuitive interface for processing sales.
- **Product Management**: Add, update, and remove products with details like price, category, and images.
- **Checkout Payment**: 
  - **Virtual Numpad**: Optimized touchscreen numeric keypad for quick cash entry.
  - **Smart Change Calculation**: Automated change display with validity checks.
  - **Responsive Layout**: Optimized for 1080x720 (3:2 Aspect Ratio) and scales up to 4K.
  - **Receipt Generation**: Backend integration for transaction recording.
- **Customizable UI**:
  - **Global Display Scaling**: Adjust the entire interface size from 50% to 200%.
  - **Granular Control**: Independently resize the Sidebar, Cart panel, and Product Grid density.
- **Order History**: 
  - View past transactions with date filtering.
  - Search receipts by unique ID.
  - Detailed receipt view with items and pricing.
- **Category Management**: Organize products into custom categories for easier navigation.
- **Settings**: Configure tax, currency, and display preferences.
- **Cross-Platform**: Runs natively on Linux, macOS, and Windows.

## Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: [Next.js 16](https://nextjs.org/) (React 19), [Tailwind CSS 4](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Backend**: [Tauri v2](https://v2.tauri.app/) (Rust)
- **Database**: SQLite (via Diesel ORM in Rust)
  - **Automatic Path Resolution**: Uses `directories` crate to store data securely in the system's local data directory (e.g., `~/.local/share/simple-pos` on Linux).
- **State Management**: React Hooks & Context

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- **Node.js** (v24 or newer recommended)
- **Rust & Cargo** (latest stable)
- **System Dependencies**:
  - **Linux**: Build essentials, webkit2gtk (see [Tauri Linux Setup](https://v2.tauri.app/start/prerequisites/#linux))
  - **macOS**: Build your own , i don't have mac.
  - **Windows**: Microsoft Visual Studio C++ Build Tools

## Setup & Development

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd simple-pos
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Run in Development Mode**
   This command starts both the Next.js frontend and the Tauri application window.
   ```bash
   npm run tauri dev
   ```
   > **Note for Linux Users**: The `tauri` script in `package.json` automatically sets `WEBKIT_DISABLE_DMABUF_RENDERER=1` to prevent rendering issues. Using `npm run tauri dev` ensures this is applied.

## Building for Production

To build a standalone executable for your operating system:

```bash
npm run tauri build
```

The output binary will be located in `src-tauri/target/release/bundle/`.


## Troubleshooting

### Linux (NVIDIA GPUs)
If you experience rendering issues, blank screens, or crashes on Linux with an NVIDIA GPU, you may need to disable the DMABUF renderer.

Run the application with the following environment variable:
```bash
WEBKIT_DISABLE_DMABUF_RENDERER=1 ./simple-pos
```
or add it to your profile/environment variables.

## Architecture

![Architecture Diagram](./mermaid-diagram-2026-02-11-181614.svg)

## Project Structure

- **`src/`**: Next.js frontend source code.
  - `app/`: Application routes and pages (`page.tsx`, `layout.tsx`).
    - `history/`: Order history page.
    - `manage/`: Management interface.
    - `setting/`: Settings page.
  - `components/`: Reusable React components (`payment`, `ui`, `design-mode`, `POSClient`, `Cart`).
  - `context/`: Global state management (`DatabaseContext`, `SettingsContext`).
  - `hooks/`: Custom React hooks.
  - `lib/`: Utility functions and API wrappers (`api.ts`).
  - `types/`: Shared TypeScript definitions.
- **`src-tauri/`**: Rust backend source code.
  - `src/`: Core Rust source files (`main.rs`, `lib.rs`, `commands/`).
  - `database/`: Local crate for database interactions.
  - `export_lib/`: Local crate for handling exports.
  - `capabilities/`: Tauri permission capabilities.
  - `tauri.conf.json`: Tauri configuration file.
